FGo! is using gettext library to localize its interface. Localization files are
stored in "data/locale" directory; additionally, other files that can be
translated are in: "data/config/", "data/help/", and "share/" folders. You are
very welcome to update/improve existing translation, or add a new one if you
wish. Even smallest contribution will be appreciated. Here are some helpful
(I hope) tips:



1. IF YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH GETTEXT AND WOULD LIKE TO CONTRIBUTE A NEW, OR
   MODIFY AN EXISTING TRANSLATION:

  Localization files are in "data/locale" directory. See section 4 for
  information about other files that can be translated.

  When ready, please send "messages.po", and/or other files at a mail
  address provided at the end of this document. I'll be happy to include you
  translation in next release of FGo!



2. IF YOU LIKE TO MODIFY EXISTING TRANSLATION BUT NEVER TRANSLATED
   AN APPLICATION BEFORE:

  Don't worry, it is quite simple. All you need to do is to edit a
  "messages.po" file located in "data/locale/LANGUAGE_CODE/LC_MESSAGES"
  directory. You can do this by using any text editor, but using dedicated
  software (e.g. Poedit, Virtaal, or Emacs) is more convenient and less
  error-prone way to edit a PO file. Translation process itself is
  straightforward and you should have no trouble with the task at all. One
  thing to remember however, is to include in your translation all "%s", "{0}",
  or "{1}" formatting characters from the original text. It is a placeholder
  for some values to be displayed on screen, and its absence can lead to crash
  of the application.

  When you're happy with the changes you made to PO file, one last thing to do,
  is to generate new "messages.mo" file, which is actually used by the program
  to show translated messages. Some editors have option to generate it for you
  automatically - if not, you need to do it manually. To do this, open console,
  navigate to folder containing "messages.po" file and run this command:

  msgfmt messages.po

  Note: you may need to install gettext if msgfmt command is not found.
  In Debian based distributions it is found in the gettext package.

  Now you can inspect if changes you have made are properly included in FGo! If
  you're happy with the result, please send "messages.po" file at a mail
  address provided at the end of this document. I'll be happy to include you
  translation in next release of FGo!

  See section 4 for information about other files that can be translated.



3. IF YOU LIKE TO ADD NEW TRANSLATION BUT NEVER TRANSLATED AN APPLICATION
   BEFORE:

  First you need to create a new folder in "data/locale" directory. This new
  folder should have the same name as language code for your language. Some of
  most common examples of language codes can be found here:
  http://www.gnu.org/software/hello/manual/gettext/Usual-Language-Codes.html.
  Next, navigate to this newly created directory and create "LC_MESSAGES"
  folder. Rest of the translation process is the same as described in
  section 2, with one exception: you should edit "messages.pot" file in
  "data/locale" directory, and then save it as "messages.po" into created
  by you folder.

  At the end open "messages.po" file with a simple text editor and edit some
  comments:

    * At the first line, replace word LANGUAGE with actual name of your language.

    * At the fourth line, provide your personal data (if you wish of course) as
      you are the first author of this translation.

  See section 4 for information about other files that can be translated.



4. SOME ADDITIONAL TEXT TO TRANSLATE:

  You can also translate files in the "data/config/" and "data/help/". Content
  from the first directory is shown in Command Line Options Window (the text
  window at the bottom of the application) at first start of FGo!, and content
  from the second directory is displayed in the help window.

  If no file with your language code is present, open file which ends with
  "en", and save it replacing "en" suffix with your language code - which is
  the same as the name of directory with your translation in "data/locale".

  Please take a note that no line in these files should have more than 79
  characters. In case of the help file it is mandatory to stay within that
  79 characters limit, while in case of the config it is only a general advice
  and can be exceeded slightly if appropriate. In many text editors, you can
  enable right margin line which can help you to not exceed this limit.

  Additionally, you may also check if "share/fgo.desktop" has localization for
  your language included.



5. TESTING YOUR TRANSLATION:

  When translation is ready, you can test if all text is properly displayed in
  the application. Navigate to "~/.fgo" directory, and move out,
  or rename temporarily file called "config". It will simulate a situation when
  FGo! is started the first time. After running the program, it should
  automatically pick up translation based on you system settings. If no proper
  translation is found, it should revert to default, English language. If you
  approach any troubles at this point please contact me at a mail address that
  can be found at the end of this file, I will be happy to help you.



                                                       Thank you for your help,
                                             Robert 'erobo' Leda  <erobo@wp.pl>
